# Moves of Podcasting

I analyzed two podcasts that I liked. Since I am a huge fan of science and medicine, it was no shock to me that I would be drawn towards this genre. Also, I am a huge fan of being in the know with current events, so it fueled both my scientific curiosity and my thirst for current events.

## 2 Docs Talk

###  Episode 1: Medical Marijuana

This podcast is shared between two female doctors, Dr. Kendall Britt, MD and Dr.Amy Rogers, MD. Together, they talk about trending topics in medicine in order to strengthen the doctor-patient relationship, as well as to help the public make conscious decisions about their health. By taking current events and bringing science into the picture, they both answer questions and pose some as well. This episode, the first in the series, starts with a case study of a male patient who suffered from metastatic testicular cancer. Due to his chemotherapy treatment, he suffered from extreme bouts of nausea and vomiting. So, he shared a blunt with a fellow patient who was also going through chemotherapy. It became to be part of his routine, to where he was able to bare the pain - and they were happy to report that he is cancer-free. Now, they transition into the subject of the legalization of medical marijuana. The issue is that they have heard tons of case studies, or anecdotes, but the thing about science is that requires factual, hard evidence in order to improve or change the way that medical professionals administer treatment to their patients. The hosts of this podcast are trained medical professionals, who try to combine both sides of the story by using anecdotes (to draw the listeners into the conversation) and science (which provides factual evidence and knowledge to the listeners). They tackled the questions, what is medical marijuana, where it comes from, it's current status in the United States, and what we need to know about it as doctors and patients. They first began with a basic breakdown of the different species, biological effects (both the good and the bad), and the chemical components of marijuana. Next, they elaborate upon the preconceived notion of "Medical marijuana", and explained that there are some medications out there that replicate the same effects that THC can do. After reminding the audience that ingesting marijuana is, in fact, a schedule one drug, they delved into the politics behind it's legalization. 23 states have approved the legalization of medical marijuana, for it has been proven to cure symptoms such as seizures, multiple sclerosis, pain (caused by Parkinson's disease, Cancer, and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder). The question that was proposed, and probably in all of our heads is, why is there not a consensus within the states as to what medical marijuana can treat? And how come some states legalize it and other don't? By delving into the specifics of addiction, the harmful side effects, the classification/approval of drugs, they hone down even more onto the government and their restriction of research. Luckily, the government is finally putting some actual time and energy into the research of marijuana. This draws back to the need for factual evidence instead of just anecdotal evidence. There has been a recent surge in studies, including a meta-analysis, which summarizes all of the studies and the information that we know so far about a subject of inquiry. Overall, the meta-analysis looked at the treatment of pain, nausea, muscle spasticity, depression, and anxiety (notice that seizures and PTSD were not listed). They concluded that the use of marijuana helped alleviate some symptoms, but it did not show an statistical significance - meaning that pure chance could have had a role. The doctors concluded by saying that we are still in the beginning processes of the legalization of marijuana, and that we need bigger and better studies in order to get the government to notice, which will, hopefully, lead to the treatment of many diseases around the United States.

### Structure and Narration

- The podcast is discussed between two medical professionals, in a casual but informative style.
- The only sound effects can be found in the introduction and the conclusion of the podcast. For some reason, they chose a nice Caribbean vibe to perhaps put the listeners into a relaxed mood.
- Surprisingly, there was some humor! They were talking about the many different kinds of synthetic THC - where one of the women compared it to the scene in Forrest Gump, when Bubba was creating a laundry list of the different ways that shrimp can be made in a meal. Also, there was a moment where they were making fun Richard Nixon's policy.
- Not surprisingly, they counterbalanced the humor with serious topics like seizures and statistics.


## TEDTalks: Science + Medicine

### Why we should trust scientists

This podcast is one of the offsprings of TEDTalks. TEDTalks is a nonprofit organization that wishes to spread ideas with short, but powerful presentations and speeches. Those who give these TEDTalks are usually experts, professors, or the heads of companies. In this case, Naomi Oreskes is a historian of science who breaks down what trust and belief really mean. She brings up issues such as climate change and vaccinations, which are currently hot topics in the realm of science and politics. Why should we believe the science that's behind such controversial issues? She then throws about some statistics about the amount of the public population that doesn't believe in vaccinations or the fact that the world is melting at an alarming rate. She states that we should trust science, but not for the reason that most of us think. Ever since elementary school, the scientific method has been engrained in our minds - it is this method that guarantees that their claims will be true. By using a hypothesis-deduction method, scientists create a hypothesis, deduce predictions from said hypothesis, and then look for evidence in the real world that could conflict with these predictions. She says that there are three reasons that this model is wrong. Number one, false theories can make true predictions. Number two, auxiliary hypotheses. Number three, science can be inductive. With every issue in the scientific method, she added an example in the history of science that demonstrated that science is not, in fact, perfect. After discussing these issues, she  turned back to global warming. She presents all of this data (including graphs, computer models, and temperature readings) about the warming of the planet and telling us what factors led up to this point. It's not just that they know that climate change in happening, we know that greenhouse gases play a large role. She quotes that a philosopher: "The only principle in science that doesn't inhibit progress is: anything goes". He was saying that scientists do a lot of different things and that they judge their decisions by judging evidence - Oreskes deems this to called "organized skepticism". This "organized skepticism" involves working together to look from a position of distrust and scrutiny. At the end of the day, science is a consensus of the scientific experts, through "organized skepticism" have judged the evidence and concluded whether or not something is true or false. However, it's not that simple. Scientists are like a jury who can say that something is completely true or false, kinda true but we need to do more research, or they can say that it might be true and we don't really know how to the answer the question at hand. She concludes by saying that science is an appeal to authority - the authority of the collective community, knowledge, and work of  a group of scientists. The reliability of technology is the result of this collective community.

### Structure and Narration

- The only music that was present was in the beginning
- This was clearly recorded with a live audience, with clapping in as she introduced her speech.
- Yet again, this was an informative podcast, but it was less conversational and more like reading an essay aloud.
- I believe that this was originally a video, for she would mention graphs and people on the screen that we being shown to the audience. Admittedly, it was difficult to grasp what message she was trying to get across when she was mentioning black lines on graphs and make jokes about the stock images that were on her slides.
- She backed up every point that she made with historical information, which differed greatly compared to the 2 Docs Talk podcast
- Her audio was rather inconsistent, for it would be really loud one second and then really quiet the next, as if she was moving around the room with a tiny microphone attached to her cheek.
